chore: add blog post (#1)
daKmoR/nested-dependencies-in-frontend: README.md

```

So this means
1. you can import the bare import directly as it is mapped to a specific file
2. you can import subfolders and subfiles as a bare module + '/' as it is mapped to a folder
3. you can NOT omit the `.js` when importing a subfolder/subfile

#### What does that mean for my production build?

You still want to be able to do optimized production builds.
The only thing is that you probably want to replace the `rollup-plugin-node-resolve` with something that respects your `import map` instead of using the node resolve.

And actually really nice would be if you could just point to your `index.html` and rollup should figure out what are your entry points and if there is an import map.

Luckily we got you covered with `rollup-plugin-index-html`.

So let's install it
```bash
yarn add --dev rollup-plugin-index-html
```

and adjust our `rollup.config.js`
```js
import indexHTML from "rollup-plugin-index-html";

export default config => ({
  input: "./index.html",
  output: {
    dir: "dist", // replaced file as we now output at least one index.html and one js file
    format: "esm" // replaced iife as we also generate an index.html which then loads the es module bundle
  },

>   plugins: [indexHTML({ ...config, rootDir: __dirname })]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  plugins: [indexHTML(config)]
```

Reviewer: this wasn't needed, right?

Author: jup too much copy/paste today 🙈  will change

---

> title: Nested dependencies in frontend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Nested Dependencies in Frontend
```

published: false

> description: What are nested dependencies, why they exist, how they can harm the frontend and what you can do to solve it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: What are nested dependencies, why do they exist, how they can harm frontend development, and what you can do to solve it?
```

tags: javascript, import-maps, node, rollup
---

> So you got this awesome idea and you want to now actually do it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So you got this awesome idea and now you want to actually do it. I'm pretty sure you do not want to start from scratch, so let's use existing open source packages.
```

> I am pretty sure you do not want to start from scratch so let's use existing open source packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to play along - all the code is on [github](https://github.com/daKmoR/nested-dependecies-in-frontend).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to play along, all the code is on [github](https://github.com/daKmoR/nested-dependecies-in-frontend).
```

For our example case, we wanna use lit-element and lit-html.

```bash
mkdir nested-dependecies-in-frontend
cd nested-dependecies-in-frontend
npm install lit-element lit-html@1.0.0 --save-exact
```

> > we are using pinned versions on purpose here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: we are using pinned versions on purpose here.
```

> and then we just load both packages in our `main.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then we just load both packages in our `main.js`.
```

```js
import { LitElement } from "lit-element";
import { html } from "lit-html";

console.log(LitElement);
console.log(html);
```

> In order to find out how big our app will be, we would like to create a rollup bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to find out how big our app will be, we would like to create a rollup bundle. First install Rollup:
```

```bash
npm install -D rollup
```

> and create a `rollup.config.js`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then create a `rollup.config.js`
```

```js
export default {
  input: "main.js",
  output: {
    file: "bundle.js",
    format: "iife"
  },
};
```

> and add a `"build": "rollup -c rollup.config.js && du -h bundle.js"` to our package.json so we build the file and output it's file size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, add `"build": "rollup -c rollup.config.js && du -h bundle.js"` to our package.json's `scripts` block, so we can easily build the file and output it's file size.
```

Let's run it :)

> oh it doesn't work :sob:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
(!) Unresolved dependencies
https://rollupjs.org/guide/en#warning-treating-module-as-external-dependency
lit-element (imported by main.js)
lit-html (imported by main.js)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Oh! It doesn't work! :sob:
```

> ok, I heard that before... we need to add some plugins to get it to understand the way node resolution works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

OK, I've heard this one before... We need to add some plugins so that Rollup will understand the way node resolution (i.e. bare module specifiers like `import { html } from 'lit-html'`) works.
```

```bash
npm i -D rollup-plugin-node-resolve
```

> modify our rollup to add

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ```js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion+12
````diff
+ import resolve from "rollup-plugin-node-resolve";
+ 
   export default {
    input: "main.js",
    output: {
      file: "bundle.js",
      format: "iife"
    },
+  plugins: [resolve()]
};````
```

not sure the suggestion syntax is right here. final output should replace the `js` code block tag with diff, indent all lines by 2, and add a `+` before insertions

```diff
+ import resolve from "rollup-plugin-node-resolve";
+ 
   export default {
    input: "main.js",
    output: {
      file: "bundle.js",
      format: "iife"
    },
+  plugins: [resolve()]
};
```

Author: thx adopted it 🤗

import resolve from "rollup-plugin-node-resolve";

export default {
  input: "main.js",
  output: {
    file: "bundle.js",
    format: "iife"
  },
  plugins: [resolve()]
};
```

```bash
$ npm run build
# ...
created bundle.js in 414ms
96K     bundle.js
```

> So that seems to work fine :muscle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So that seems to work fine. :muscle:
```

> ### What happens if someone prefers yarn?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What Happens if Someone Prefers yarn?
```

> Doing a yarn install and then a build should result in the same output right?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Doing a yarn install and then a build should result in the same output, right?
```

```bash
$ yarn install
$ yarn build
# ...
created bundle.js in 583ms
124K    bundle.js
```

> #### wow that is unexpected - 124K vs 96K?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wow! That is unexpected - 124K for the `yarn` build vs. 96K for `npm`?
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> It seems yarn has some extra files... maybe a package is double?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It seems the yarn build contains some extra files... maybe a package was duplicated?
```

```bash
$ yarn list --pattern lit-*
├─ lit-element@2.2.0
│  └─ lit-html@1.1.0
└─ lit-html@1.0.0
```

> jup version `1.0.0` and `1.1.0` is available for `lit-html`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yup, both `lit-html` versions `1.0.0` and `1.1.0` are installed.
```

> The reason is most likely that we have a pinned `1.0.0` version in our root dependency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reason is most likely that we pinned `lit-html` to version `1.0.0` in our root dependency when we installed it with the `npm install --save-exact lit-html@1.0.0` command, above.
```

> npm seems to dedupe it fine...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While `npm` seems to dedupe it fine, I don't feel safe using `npm` because if the dependency tree becomes bigger npm also likes to install nested dependencies.
```

```bash
$ npm ls lit-element lit-html
├─┬ lit-element@2.2.0
│ └── lit-html@1.0.0  deduped
└── lit-html@1.0.0
```

> However, don't feel safe when using `npm` because if the dependency tree becomes bigger npm also likes to install nested dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### Summary of how node resolution works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How Node Resolution Works
```

So if you do an `import { LitElement } from "lit-element";` then the "resolver" of node gets `lit-element`.
Then it will start to search in all `module.paths` in order.
You can simply check it out by doing in your console
```bash
$ node
module.paths
[
  '/some/path/nested-dependencies-in-frontend/node_modules',
  '/some/path/node_modules',
  '/some/node_modules',
  '/node_modules',
]
# unimportant folders are hidden here
```
Basically it look into every `node_modules` folder up the folder tree starting with the current directory.

This is always relative from where you are importing the file from.
e.g. within `node_modules/lit-element` it looks different
```bash
$ node
module.paths
[
  '/some/path/nested-dependencies-in-frontend/node_modules/lit-element/node_modules',
  '/some/path/nested-dependencies-in-frontend/node_modules',
  '/some/path/node_modules',
  '/some/node_modules',
  '/node_modules',
]
# unimportant folders are hidden here
```

Doing that explains how nested dependencies can be resolved that way.

> ##### Pro nested dependencies for node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Pros nested dependencies for node
```

- It means multiple packages each can have their own version of their dependencies
- It means no influenced by dependencies of other parts of your Application
- On the server, you usually do not care too much about how much code (in files size) there is
- There is no "high fee" to pay for accessing many extra files.

#### Cons nested dependencies for the frontend
- Shipping the same code twice means longer download and processing times
- Stuff might break if the same code is imported twice from 2 different locations (e.g. performance optimizations via weak maps or singletons)
- Overall, in short, your site will get slower.

### An automatic resolve that prefers nesting might be dangerous for frontend

- We should care about performance
- We should care about file size
- We need to be in full control of what ends up on the client's browser

> 

Reviewer: maybe add here: some packages expect to be loaded as a singleton?

Author: added "We sometimes require certain code/packages to be singletons in our application"

All this is probably problematic when adopting the node magic for the browser.

> Imho even if technically possible loading the code for a complex data-grid more then once should never be the goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imho even if technically possible loading the code for a complex data-grid more than once should never be the goal.
```

> Mind you that it's an experimental API

It's even meant for the browser - so no need to do any transformation at all??? just provide the map and you don't even need rollup while developing? sounds crazy? let's try it out :hugs:

It currently only works in chrome 75+ and you need to enable a flag.
So enter `chrome://flags/` in the URL bar and then search for `Built-in module infra and import maps` and enable it.
Here is a direct link to it: [chrome://flags/#enable-built-in-module-infra](chrome://flags/#enable-built-in-module-infra).

In order to use it with a browser let's create an `index.html` file.
```html
<html lang="en-GB">
<head>
  <script type="importmap">
    {
      "imports": {
        "lit-html": "./node_modules/lit-html/lit-html.js",
        "lit-html/": "./node_modules/lit-html/",
        "lit-element": "./node_modules/lit-element/lit-element.js",
        "lit-element/": "./node_modules/lit-element/"
      }
    }
  </script>
  <title>My app</title>
</head>

<body>
  <script type="module" src="./main.js"></script>
</body>

</html>
```

then serve it by entering `npx http-server` in your terminal.

> Then you can open `http://localhost:8080/` and look into your console to see that the imports actually worked.

Reviewer: could also use `-o` flag

Author: added it 🤗

    },
+  plugins: [resolve()]
  };
```

```bash
$ npm run build
# ...
created bundle.js in 414ms
96K     bundle.js
```

So that seems to work fine. :muscle:

### What Happens if Someone Prefers yarn?

Doing a yarn install and then a build should result in the same output, right?

```bash
$ yarn install
$ yarn build
# ...
created bundle.js in 583ms
124K    bundle.js
```

Wow! That is unexpected - 124K for the `yarn` build vs. 96K for `npm`?
It seems the yarn build contains some extra files... maybe a package was duplicated?

```bash
$ yarn list --pattern lit-*
├─ lit-element@2.2.0
│  └─ lit-html@1.1.0
└─ lit-html@1.0.0
```

Yup, both `lit-html` versions `1.0.0` and `1.1.0` are installed.
The reason is most likely that we pinned `lit-html` to version `1.0.0` in our root dependency when we installed it with the `npm install --save-exact lit-html@1.0.0` command, above.

While `npm` seems to dedupe it fine, I don't feel safe using `npm` because if the dependency tree becomes bigger npm also likes to install nested dependencies.
```bash
$ npm ls lit-element lit-html
├─┬ lit-element@2.2.0
│ └── lit-html@1.0.0  deduped
└── lit-html@1.0.0
```

### How Node Resolution Works

> So if you do an `import { LitElement } from "lit-element";` then the "resolver" of node gets `lit-element`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion+2
In nodejs, when you import a file using a bare specifier, e.g. `import { LitElement } from "lit-element";` Node's module resolver function gets the string `lit-element`, and begins searching all of the directories listed in `module.paths` for the importing module, which you can inspect like any other value in the node REPL:
```

Then it will start to search in all `module.paths` in order.
You can simply check it out by doing in your terminal
```bash
$ node
module.paths
[
  '/some/path/nested-dependencies-in-frontend/node_modules',
  '/some/path/node_modules',
  '/some/node_modules',
  '/node_modules',
]
# unimportant folders are hidden here
```

> Basically it look into every `node_modules` folder up the folder tree starting with the current directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion+4
Basically, node looks into every `node_modules` folder, starting in the module's parent directory and moving up the file tree, until it finds a directory name which matches the module specifier (in our case, `lit-element`). The resolution algorithm always starts at the current module's parent directory, so it's always relative to where you are importing the file from. If we would inspect `module.paths` from within lit-element's directory, we'd see a different list.
```

This is always relative from where you are importing the file from.
e.g. within `node_modules/lit-element` it looks different
```bash

> $ node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ cd node_modules/lit-element 
$ node
```

module.paths
[
  '/some/path/nested-dependencies-in-frontend/node_modules/lit-element/node_modules',
  '/some/path/nested-dependencies-in-frontend/node_modules',
  '/some/path/node_modules',
  '/some/node_modules',
  '/node_modules',
]

> # unimportant folders are hidden here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

> Doing that explains how nested dependencies can be resolved that way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we can understand what node's nested dependencies are. Every module can have it's own `node_modules` directory, *ad nauseum*, and imports referenced in that module's files will always look in their closest `node_modules` directory first..
```

> ##### Pros nested dependencies for node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion+10
| Pros of Nested Dependencies on Node | Cons of Nested Dependencies for Frontend |
| ----- | ----- |
| Every package can have their own versions of every dependency | Shipping the same code twice means longer download and processing times |
| Packages are not influenced by dependencies of other packages in the application | Stuff might break if the same code is imported twice from two different locations (e.g. performance optimizations via [WeakMaps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap) or singletons)
| On the server, you usually do not care too much about how much extra code (in files size) there is | Overall, in short, your site will get slower |
| There is no "high fee" to pay for accessing many extra files. | |
```

- It means every package can have their own versions of every dependency
- It means packages are not influenced by dependencies of other packages in the application
- On the server, you usually do not care too much about how much extra code (in files size) there is
- There is no "high fee" to pay for accessing many extra files.

#### Cons nested dependencies for the frontend
- Shipping the same code twice means longer download and processing times
- Stuff might break if the same code is imported twice from 2 different locations (e.g. performance optimizations via weak maps or singletons)
- Overall, in short, your site will get slower

> ### An automatic resolve that prefers nesting might be dangerous for frontend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The Problems
In short, automatic module resolution that prefers nesting may be dangerous for frontend.
```

> - We should care about performance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We care about loading and parsing performance
```

> - We should care about file size

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We care about file size
```

> - We sometimes require certain code/packages to be singletons in our application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Some packages must be singletons (i.e. unique in the module graph) to work properly in our application
  - Examples include `lit-html` and `graphql`
```

- We should be in full control of what ends up on the client's browser

> All this is probably problematic when adopting the node resolution magic for the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Node-style module resolution, which was designed for a server-side environment, can turn these concerns into serious issues when adopted in the browser.
```

> Imho even if technically possible loading the code for a complex data-grid more than once should never be the goal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<abbr title="In my humble opinion">IMHO</abbr>, even if node resolution makes it technically possible, loading the code for a complex data-grid more than once should never be our goal as frontend developers.
```

> ### How can we solve this?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Solutions

Thankfully, there are solutions to these problems that we can use today, and proposals on the horizon which will altogether eliminate the need for such workarounds in the future.
```

> #### Make it work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Making it Work Today
```

> So what can you do?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some tips to work with bare module specifiers in your front end code today:
```

> - Making sure that you only have similar ranges of dependencies in your dependency tree

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Make sure that the modules in your dependency tree all use similar version ranges of their common dependencies
```

> - You could not pin version even though it might be a better choice for applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid pinning specific package versions (like we did above with `npm i -S lit-html@1.0.0`) wherever possible
```

> - npm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you're using `npm`:
```

>   - Running `npm dedupe` will try to find more packages that can potentially dedupe

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Run `npm dedupe` after installing packages to remove nested duplicates.
```

>   - You can try deleting your `package-lock.json` and do a fresh install it sometimes magically helps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - You can try deleting your `package-lock.json` and do a fresh install. Sometimes it magically helps 🧙‍♂️
```

> - yarn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you're using `yarn`:
```

>   - if you have duplicate versions somewhere you could try [yarn resolutions](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Consider using [yarn resolutions](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/) to specify your preferred version of any duplicated packages
```

> #### Look into the future

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### A Look Into the Future
```

> Potentially a controlled "manual" 1:1 mapping between `package` and `path` could solve this permanently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we could tell the JavaScript environment (i.e. the browser) exactly at which `path` to find the file specified by some string, we would have no need for node-style resolution or programming-time deduplication routines.
```

> You could write something like this and save it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We'd write something like this and pass it to the browser to specify which paths mapped to which packages:
```

```json

> "lit-html": "./node_modules/lit-html.js",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{
  "lit-html": "./node_modules/lit-html.js",
```

> "lit-element": "./node_modules/lit-element.js"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "lit-element": "./node_modules/lit-element.js"
}
```

```

> using such a map to resolve package paths means there would always only be one version of lit-html and lit-element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using this import map to resolve package paths means there would always only be one version of `lit-html` and `lit-element`, because the global environment already knows exactly where to find them.
```

> Luckily there is actually a spec for it and it's called [import maps](https://github.com/WICG/import-maps).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Luckily ✨,  this is already a proposed spec called [import maps](https://github.com/WICG/import-maps). And since it's meant for the browser there's no need to do any transformation at all! You just provide the map and you don't need any build step while developing?

Sounds crazy 😜? Let's try it out! :hugs:
```

> > Mind you that it's an experimental API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: Mind you this is an experimental API proposal, it hasn't been finalized or accepted by implementers.
```

> It's even meant for the browser - so no need to do any transformation at all??? just provide the map and you don't even need rollup while developing? sounds crazy? let's try it out :hugs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> It currently only works in chrome 75+ and you need to enable a flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It currently only works in Chrome 75+, behind a flag.
```

So enter `chrome://flags/` in the URL bar and then search for `Built-in module infra and import maps` and enable it.
Here is a direct link to it: [chrome://flags/#enable-built-in-module-infra](chrome://flags/#enable-built-in-module-infra).

> In order to use it with a browser let's create an `index.html` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using Import Maps in the Browser

In order to use an import map, let's create an `index.html` file.
```

```html
<html lang="en-GB">
<head>
  <script type="importmap">
    {
      "imports": {
        "lit-html": "./node_modules/lit-html/lit-html.js",
        "lit-html/": "./node_modules/lit-html/",
        "lit-element": "./node_modules/lit-element/lit-element.js",
        "lit-element/": "./node_modules/lit-element/"
      }
    }
  </script>
  <title>My app</title>
</head>

<body>

>   <script type="module" src="./main.js"></script>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <script type="module">
    import { html, LitElement } from 'lit-element';
    customElements.define('crowd-chant', class extends LitElement {
      render() {
        return html`
            <h2>What do we want?</h2>
            <slot name="what"></slot>
            <h2>When do we want them?</h2>
            <time><slot name="when">Now!</slot></time>
        `;
      }
    });
  </script>
  
  <crowd-chant>
    <span slot="what">Bare Imports!</span> 
    <span slot="when">Now!</span>
  </crowd-chant>
```

Let's give 'em something copypastable

</body>

</html>
```

> then serve it by entering `npx http-server -o` in your terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save the file then serve it locally by running `npx http-server -o` in the same directory.
```

> This should open [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/) where you should see in your console that the imports actually work. :tada:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will open [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/) where you will see your custom element rendered on screen. :tada:
```

> What kind of black magic is this? no build step and I can still keep writing bare modules?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What kind of black magic is this 🔮? Without any bundlers, tools, or build step, we wrote a componentized app with the kind of bare specifiers we've come to know and love.
```

Lets break it down:
```js
import { html } from 'lit-html';
// will actually import "./node_modules/lit-html/lit-html.js"
// because of
// "lit-html": "./node_modules/lit-html/lit-html.js",

import { repeat } from 'lit-html/directives/repeat.js'
// will actually import "./node_modules/lit-html/directives/repeat.js"
// beacause of
// "lit-html/": "./node_modules/lit-html/",
```

So this means

> 1. you can import the bare import directly as it is mapped to a specific file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You can import packages directly since the package name is mapped to a specific file
```

> 2. you can import subfolders and subfiles as a bare module + '/' as it is mapped to a folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. You can import subdirectories and files, since `packageName + '/'` is mapped to its directory
```

> 3. you can NOT omit the `.js` when importing a subfolder/subfile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. You must *not* omit the `.js` when importing a file from a subdirectory
```
